README.md, before:

# rusticsourdough
## Summary
This is a small application designed to be deployed as an AWS Lambda function to enforce certain branch protections for newly created GitHub repositories, e.g. within an organization.

It could easily be adapted to enforce those same branch protections on already-existing repositories.

Upon success, it also files an issue to the repository confirming actions taken.

It primarily utilizes [the GitHub REST API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest) to accomplish this functionality.

## Deployment procedure
- [Create an AWS Lamba function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/getting-started-create-function.html#gettingstarted-zip-function)
  - For "Runtime", select Python 3.9
- [Create a layer with dependencies.zip](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-layers.html#configuration-layers-create)
  - Compatible with Python 3.9 runtime
  - There is additional discussion on this page on how to generate language-specific library dependencies, although a dependencies.zip containing the requisite Python libraries is provided in this repository as a convenience
- [Add the layer to the function you created](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/invocation-layers.html#invocation-layers-using)
- Modify the source code of this application to reflect relevant values for your GitHub organization/owner, user name, and [GitHub authentication token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token)
  - You might also like to change the prescribed [branch protections](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/branches#update-branch-protection) per the payload being sent
- Insert source code into the AWS Lambda function
  - That is, in the actual console, paste it into `your-function-name/lambda_function.py`
- Deploy the function
- [Add an HTTP API endpoint to your Lamba function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/services-apigateway.html#apigateway-add)
  - "Add a trigger" initiates this flow
- Finally, use the publicly accessible HTTP API endpoint URL to create and configure an appropriate [GitHub webhook](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/webhooks-and-events/webhooks/about-webhooks)
  - It should point to the HTTP API endpoint you created for your Lambda function
  - It should only push Repositories events

## Needed improvements
- The user name, token information, etc, should be stored environmentally and/or within a secrets store
- Add secret-based authentication to the Lambda function
- The deployment procedure could be wrapped inside a Terraform (or similar) provisioning scheme

Commit message:

Move input variables to terraform.tfvars, improved readme
Signed-off-by: Thomas Gordon <nrgetik@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# rusticsourdough
## Summary
A small application designed as an AWS Lambda function to serve as the facility which enforces
certain branch protections for newly created GitHub repositories within an organization. Upon
success, it also files an issue to the repository confirming actions taken. It utilizes
[the GitHub REST API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest) to accomplish this functionality, and is
provisioned and deployed using [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io), particularly the excellent
[terraform-aws-lambda](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-lambda) and
[terraform-aws-apigateway-v2](https://github.com/terraform-aws-modules/terraform-aws-apigateway-v2)
modules.

## Prerequisites
* The [Terraform CLI](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli?in=terraform/aws-get-started)
* An AWS account
* The [AWS CLI (2.0+)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html)
  * Your AWS account configured in a profile
* A GitHub account and organization
* A GitHub personal access token

## Usage

1. Clone this repository
2. Run `terraform init` to initialize Terraform backend
3. Set your AWS profile name and region, as well as GitHub user name, personal access token, and
organization name in `terraform.tfvars`
4. Run `terraform plan`
5. If the plan looks good, run `terraform apply`
6. Configure the provided `endpoint_url` in the Terraform output as a [GitHub webhook](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/webhooks-and-events/webhooks/about-webhooks)
applicable to your organization. It need only push `Respositories` events

## Possible enhancements
- Support for credential store(s) for secrets
- Authentication to the Lambda function itself
